Roundstart Equipment Documents (#524)
space-wizards/docs: src/en/space-station-14/round-flow/starting-equipment.md

Sometimes essential equipment is a set of several items at once, such a a toolbelt or a foolbox. Even if the contents of a toolbelt are generic, having a tool for every situation is essential engineering.

### Optional Equipment

Optional equipment are items that serve an uncommon need to a role, but still recognizably belong to that role. The CMO's beret is optional because it has the role's name on it, but doesn't do anything. A ballistic shield, a substation machine board, or a rolling pin are examples. Unique RP props like a stethoscope and clothing often fall in this category.

### Generic Items

Items that are widely available, easily crafted, and aren't strongly connected to any role's identity. Hand labelers, flashlights, and water are generic.

## Locations

### Loadouts

Loadouts are the items a player has on them when they first spawn. Nearly every station job allows players to customize these loadouts as part of character creation. The loadout is part of creating your unique space alien and so is focused primarily on cosmetics, mainly clothing. But it's also used to limit options as part of the crushing conformity of working under space capitalism.

> Every role should spawn wearing department-identifying colors and clothing, with your options existing between different kinds of uniform. At minimum players should spawn with a PDA, a backpack (or variant), a headset with their department's comms channel, and a jumpsuit. Optional categories can exist for any other kind of clothing, but gloves in a loadout **must not** disguise fingerprints to give more intentionality to someone choosing to hide them.

Reviewer: To expand on this and suggest a different path, I think roundstart gloves should be limited to a single fiber type per department. The issue with fibers from the detective perspective is less the universal usage of gloves and more "Black fibers, yellow insulated fibers, this evidence is worthless". Providing a default glove type that identifies a department is a good middle ground between anti-metagame cover and detective information usage.

> Every role should spawn wearing department-identifying colors and clothing, with your options existing between different kinds of uniform. At minimum players should spawn with a PDA, a backpack (or variant), a headset with their department's comms channel, and a jumpsuit. Optional categories can exist for any other kind of clothing, but gloves in a loadout **must not** disguise fingerprints to give more intentionality to someone choosing to hide them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Loadouts are the items a player has on them when they first spawn. Nearly every station job allows players to customize these loadouts as part of character creation. The loadout is part of creating your unique space alien, and so is focused primarily on cosmetics, mainly clothing. But it's also used to limit options as part of the crushing conformity of working under space capitalism.

Every role should spawn wearing department-identifying colors and clothing, with your options existing between different kinds of uniforms. At minimum, players should spawn with a PDA, a backpack (or variant), a headset with their department's comms channel, and a jumpsuit. Optional categories can exist for any other kind of clothing, but gloves in a loadout **must not** disguise fingerprints to give more intentionality to someone choosing to hide them.
```

In addition to their own specialized gear, there are several items present in all command lockers.

 - A personal stamp.
 - A headset with encryption keys for their department and for command.
 - A door remote controlling their department's airlocks.
 - A box containing spare department encryption keys.
 - A box containing spare circuit boards for vital machines and computers.

### Vending Machines

Vending machines are the main source of optional and expendable equipment for departments, and are a common source of generic equipment in public spaces. Vending machines are consistent, simple, and well-known locations for sets of items. Their limited stock creates resource scarcity, but their resources are never truly scarce with a restock from Cargo. 

> Each full department contains (at least) two (2) vending machines responsible for restocking players and providing extra supplies. The wardrobe (or "Drobe") consists of clothing, while the second supplies non-clothing. Together they should supply at least two naked players with the necessary gear to work the job (two complete sets of spare tools and uniforms).

Reviewer: I think we should specify a maximum here as well as a minimum to prevent overstocking "scarce" items. 
This also needs to address _needed_ items vs _desired_ items - e.g. engivend supplying wrenches vs supplying RCDs.

Lockers for specialized jobs in a department (including department heads) should include any equipment present in a "lesser" locker, unless that job has an equivalent item.  For instance a toolbelt can be replaced by a toolbelt with more space, or a gun can be replaced by a cooler gun. This is also part of discouraging the raiding of secondary lockers as a source for your own gear. A player shouldn't need anything from a locker that they have access to which wasn't provided in their own locker.

In addition to their own specialized gear, there are several items present in all command lockers.

 - A personal stamp.
 - A headset with encryption keys for their department and for command.
 - A door remote controlling their department's airlocks.
 - A box containing spare department encryption keys.

>  - A box containing spare circuit boards for vital machines and computers.

Reviewer 3: I'd also mention that if members of a department have unique PDA apps (e.g AstroNav, MedTek) then the head's locker should include cartridges for those apps.

A player should want most items found in their locker or have a clear picture of why they would want them. Optional equipment can be included at random (as long as it's not selectable in a loadout), and generic equipment shouldn't appear unless it's _really_ funny. Expendable items in a locker should have adequate availability outside of lockers to discourage looting multiple lockers and leaving the next player with part of their gear missing.

Lockers for specialized jobs in a department (including department heads) should include any equipment present in a "lesser" locker, unless that job has an equivalent item. For instance a toolbelt can be replaced by a toolbelt with more space, or a gun can be replaced by a cooler gun. This is also part of discouraging the raiding of secondary lockers as a source for your own gear. A player shouldn't need anything from a locker that they have access to which wasn't provided in their own locker.

> In addition to their own specialized gear, there are several items present in all command lockers.

Reviewer 4: You should have a quick little mention of hardsuit storage that most command members get.

Author: I added it as the start of lockers alongside "some roles additional items might be placed around their starting room."

#### Tool Vendors

Tool vending machines are one of the most common types, typically themed to specific departments. They provide a variety of essential and optional tools for performing a role, acting as both an entry point for new hires and a shared stock of expendables for departments. The ordering of items should go: `Essential -> Expendable -> Optional -> Roleplay`.  Clothing items typically belong in a wardrobe vendor, but a few exceptions exist:

 - Filled Container Clothing
  - - This typically means belts. While the belt itself is a clothing item, the items inside it are not and should not be available inside a wardrobe.
 - Worn items that aren't clothing
 - - Items like whistles or a backpack water tank. While they can be worn, they aren't "clothing" in an intuitive sense.
 - Clothing not worn by the player themselves
 - - These are things like a muzzle or a hospital gown. They're akin to tools in how they are used on others, rather than used for yourself.

#### Clothing Vendors

> Wardrobes (or "drobes") are another common vendor themed around clothing. They allow players the ability to quickly change their look to the drobe's theme, and can include functional (and even powerful) clothing. Like any vending machine they should stick to their theme; Every item in a Drobe must be equip-able and be intuitively thought of as clothes. The order of clothing in a Drobe should have essential role equipment listed first, followed by: `Head -> Eyes -> Mask -> Ears -> Back -> Belt -> InnerClothing -> OuterClothing -> Neck -> Gloves -> Feet`.

Reviewer 4: You should mention that some jobs have an actual dresser to substitute as their wardrobe (command)

Author: I don't want to have an aside to mention it when the section is less about specific jobs and more about vending machines in general. I feel like this might be better addressed in a mapping document, but to be completely honest I don't think it needs to be explict. If a change of clothes is something we absolutely want command to have access to, I would have it in the lockers section alongside command's "specialized gear."

### Generic Equipment
Items that are widely available, easily crafted, or aren't strongly connected to a role's identity are generic. Hand labelers, flashlights, and many RP props are examples of generic equipment.

### Expendable Equipment
Rather self explanatory: Expendable equipment is finite. It's something you need either time or resources to replace. These can be essential like fuel, optional like grenades, and generic like steel.

## Locations

### Loadouts

todo

Loadouts are the items given to a player when they first spawn. Loadouts are different for each role, and loadouts for station jobs give players a small set of options. These items are never essential, and typically clothing.

Station role loadouts should spawn with department-identifying clothing. At minimum players should spawn with a PDA, a backpack (or variant), a headset with their department's coms channel, and a jumpsuit. Loadouts should **not** contain job-essential equipment that allows a player to do their job without ever visiting their department.

### Lockers

> At round-start every role spawn near 1 complete set of their role's essential equipment. Typically this is some sort of locked container (a locker) but might rarely be items scattered around their starting room. They spend a few moments sorting through and equipping these items, getting familiar with them, and preparing for their shift. Mid-round players - either through late joining or getting promoted - will seek out an unclaimed locker to get their gear. Antagonists will similarly seek out these lockers, knowing that they will contain everything a person needs to do some specific job. The number of lockers that need to be mapped should be at or barely exceed the roundstart + latejoin capacity of the station.

Author: Passengers *do* spawn with a complete set of essential equipment. They just don't have any. :godo:

### Lathes

Most departments can print additional gear from a machine using shared resources. At minimum a department's mapped lathe should be capable of equipping a player with the most basic gear needed for their job. Certain specialized equipment - including some essential equipment - should not be immediately available in lathes. They might become available later as a result of science research or from finding a blueprint. Even still some equipment might never be available in a lathe and must be aquired somewhere else, such as cargo.

Lathes are the primary source for generic equipment a player might want. Autolathes are solely capable of printing generic items, while department specific lathes can print anything from generic to essential. Department lathes should be primarily focused on producing items useful to the employees in that department.

| Location | Round Start Lathe |
| --- | --- |
| Hydroponics | biogenerator |
| Cargo | autolate, ore processor |
| Engineering | autolathe |
| HoP Office | uniform printer |
| Medical | medical techfab |
| Armory | security techfab |
| Science | autolathe, protolathe, circuit imprinter, exosuit fabricator |

### Mapped

> Maps often contain gear scattered around a department for players to take. These are typically generic items like materials, but can be also be spare tools and expendables. Spawners should exist for a standardized collection of items to guide mappers should they choose to use it. Examples would include a spawner for one random essential tool, or at the extreme a spawner for generic engineering materials on a 30 pop station.

Reviewer 3: A _random essential tool_ probably isn't especially useful as a mapped departmental spawn, since essential tools, by definition, are items that all members of a department should have easy access to from their lockers and vendors anyway.

In any case, I think it'd be worth mentioning in this section the _other reason_ that mapped spawners should exist (aside from providing standardized guides for mappers to use), which is that we can change what items are spawned by a spawner by just editing its YAML prototype to avoid needing to manually adjust mapped items per-map. For instance, we could have a spawner for Cargo on every map that spawns 30 steel / glass / plastic. If we decide down the line that we want Cargo to spawn with 15 of each material instead, we just edit the spawner directly.

### Vending Machines

Vending machines are the main source of optional and expendable equipment for departments, and a common source of generic equipment in public spaces. Vending machines are consistent, simple, and well-known locations for sets of items. Their limited stock creates resource scarcity, but their resources are never truly scarce with a restock from Cargo.

> Each full department contains (at least) two (2) vending machines responsible for restocking players and providing extra supplies. The wardrobe (or "Drobe") consists of clothing, while the second supplies non-clothing. Together they should supply  exactly two naked players with all their necessary gear (two complete sets of essential equipment and uniforms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each full department contains (at least) two (2) vending machines responsible for restocking players and providing extra supplies. The wardrobe (or "Drobe") consists of clothing, while the second supplies non-clothing. Together they should supply exactly two naked players with all their necessary gear (two complete sets of essential equipment and uniforms).
```
